# Model_B_with_colored_noise_code
This repository contains the source code used to simulate the system described by Model B with colored noise, along with the data presented in the accompanying paper.

In this work, we model the effects of active particles on passive colloidal particles in an active–passive mixture. The influence of the active particles on the passive ones is represented as a spatiotemporally correlated colored noise. 

The theoretical background for generating the spatiotemporally correlated colored noise is described in : https://journals.aps.org/pra/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevA.46.4670

The simulation is implemented in Fortran 77. The spatiotemporally correlated colored noise is generated by solving a reaction–diffusion equation. A Gaussian white noise field is first generated using the standard gasdev subroutine from Numerical Recipes in Fortran 77, and then filtered to obtain the desired spatiotemporal correlations.



****###---Included Codes : -****

(i)  snapshot_code.f -  Generates snapshots of the evolving φ-field for use in producing figures and animation movies for the manuscript. In this particular code, the parameters are set to correalation length alam=7 and time at=1 for the colored noise. These parameters can be varied to generate all the data included in the manuscript.

(ii) correlation_code.f - Computes the two-point correlation function and the structure factor of the φ-field using the hardened variable and Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) methods. In this particular code, the parameters are set to correalation length alam=7 and time at=1 for the colored noise. These parameters can be varied to generate all the data included in the manuscript.




****###---Instructions to run the code : -****
(i) Compiling the code:
The code can be compiled as follows-

gfortran code_name.f -o code.exe

./code.exe

(ii) Data generated by compiling 'snapshot_code.f' -
First, we need to keep the 'fnameapol' file in the same folder as the code. After the compilation, files named {apo.i, i=1,Nsnap} files will be generated where Nsnap is the number of snapshots. Inside the files, the data are stored in the three column format :

x y φ(x,y)

where, (x,y) are the location of lattice points and φ(x,y) is the value of variable φ there. Then the data can be plotted as a heatmap in Gnuplot, python,matlab or any other plotting software.

(ii) Data generated by compiling 'correlation_code.f' -
After the complation, the following files are generated,

{cf.i, i=1,20} : correlation function (c(r) vs. r) data at different times

{sf.i, i=1,20} : structure factor (s(k) vs. k) data at different times

lens.dat : stores length from structure factor with time

lenc.dat : stores length from correlation function with time

The data can be plotted using Xmgrace, Gnuplot, python, matlab or any other plotting software



 
